# aws-s3-to-s3

This is a sample repository for a Lambda function that runs when an object is uploaded to a specific S3 bucket (source bucket) and copies it to another one (target bucket). After copying the file, it also writes into a DynamoDB table the following metadata: the name of the file, timestamp when the file was uploaded, file size in MBs and finally whether the filename contains specific words or not.

The structure of this project is the following:

- s3_to_s3_copy - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The following resources will be created when you deploy the application:
- VPC
- Private Subnet
- No Ingress security group
- Route table
- DynamoDB table
- Lambda function
- An IAM role for the lambda function
- S3 source bucket
- S3 target bucket
- A gateway VPC endpoint for S3
- A gateway VPC endpoint for DynamoDB

**Caution**: most of these resources are included in the AWS Free Tier but be careful and delete these resources once you test the project if you do not want to get charged.

## Deploy the sample application

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

**Important**:
You may override the default parameters defined in the **template.yaml** file after running the **deploy** command. If you choose to save the deployment configuration during this process, you may simply run ```sam deploy``` for subsequent deployments after building the code.


The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

* **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
* **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
* **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
* **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
* **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You may use these sample responses to the y/n questions if you are not familiar with AWS or SAM CLI:
```
  Confirm changes before deploy [y/N]: y
  Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation [Y/n]: y
  Disable rollback [y/N]: n
  Save arguments to configuration file [Y/n]: y
  SAM configuration file [samconfig.toml]:
  SAM configuration environment [default]:
```


## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
aws-s3-to-s3$ sam build
```

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
aws-s3-to-s3$ sam local invoke --event events/event.json
```

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line.

```bash
aws-s3-to-s3$ sam logs -n AWSS3FileUpload --stack-name aws-s3-to-s3 --tail
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name aws-s3-to-s3
```

or

```bash
sam delete
```
